Contributing upstream, it will make or break Linux
##################################################
:date: 2010-03-24 00:12
:author: v00d00
:category: Uncategorized
:slug: contributing-upstream-it-will-make-or-break-linux
:status: published

Many fully fledges distros have drawn praise for bringing something new
to the linux arena, while relying on the solid foundation of a mother
distro, Mint, for example, is based on Ubuntu which is based on Debian.
Sabayon is based on Gentoo; PCLinuxOS on Mandrivia so on and so forth.

There has been much comment in the community about these new distros
taking the mother distros work, adding to it and pushing out releases
without passing those additions back to the mother distro. In many ways
 this is still happening, new distros come out each and every day which
is a serious misallocation of reasources, I mean seriously how many
different variants do you need? Devleopers will add a few packages
change the wallpaper and claim it’s a new distro, which its not, sorry,
Yes im talking to you Ubuntu scientology edition et al.

What I see is a worrying trend, that rather than becoming package
maintainers for upstream packages developers often create small personal
repos, helped in part by PPAs / overlay overuse, which means that effort
gets divided and there are often duplicate packages, an older version in
the main tree with its own maintainer and the newer version with more
features and bug fixes in some obscure repository somewhere with a
different maintainer.

There were claims earlier in its history that Ubuntu was doing similar,
adding custom patches and only maintaining a small subset of the overall
tree, while not offering those changes upstream. Nowadays the
communication is better and the Debian developers seem relatively
positive about Ubuntu.

Obviously we will never see the kinds of contributions that Redhat or
Novell bring to linux and opensource from Ubuntu / Canocal as they have
said they are not interested in doing it publically, but do the hundreds
of small fixes as in their “papecuts” marketing gimmick make their way
upstream?

A similar thing with Sabayon was claimed in the early days there seemed
to be a bit of hostility from certain members of the Gentoo community
about what Sabayon was doing.  This situation has improved dramatically
in recent months, communication with upstream has improved, both
reporting bugs and providing patches, Gentoo devs are often seen hanging
around on sabayon channels and vice versa. Lxnay, the lead developer for
Sabayon is now an official Gentoo developer. Joost the Entropy
maintainer is working closely with both the KDE and Gnome herds to iron
out issues with the latest release of both desktop environments.

The Sabayon team always desired to be working closer to upstream with
the belief that together we are stronger, and that by having a more
desktop and user focused Gentoo it would improve the Gentoo experience
for a lot of users, and I think that extends to all of open source in
general, if we all worked together in a harmonious way we could do
anything, but its open source, so it will never happen, the status quo
of its greatest strength and greatest weakness.
